[Music]
thank you
and um it may seem a bit premature to
make a speech now about britain after
kovid when that deceptively nasty
disease is still rampant
in other countries and when global
case numbers are growing fast and when
many in this country
are nervous rightly about more outbreaks
whether national
or local like the flare-up in leicester
whereas i promise we're putting on the
brakes and i thank the people of
leicester for their
forbearance and yet we cannot
continue simply to be prisoners of this
crisis
we're preparing now slowly cautiously
to come out of hibernation and i believe
it's absolutely vital for us
to set out the way ahead so that
everyone can think
and plan for the future short medium
and long term because if the cro the
kovid crisis
has taught us one thing it's that this
country needs to be ready
for what may be coming and we need to be
able to move
with levels of energy and speed that we
have not needed
for generations and i know that there
are
plenty of things that people will say uh
and we got wrong and
we owe that discussion and that honesty
to the tens of thousands who have died
before their time to the families
who have lost loved ones and of course
there must be time
to learn the lessons and we will
but i also know that some things went
right
and emphatically right and i think of
the speed and efficiency with which we
put up the nightingales
10 days for a hospital i think of the
drive and inventiveness
of the british companies who rose to the
ventilator challenge
with three brand new production lines
called into being
within the space of eight weeks with a
new model
a ventilator developed in march and
granted regulatory approval in weeks
and nine and a half thousand of them now
made
i pay tribute to the pace at which
oxford university
managed to perform the trials for
dexamethasone
the world's first demonstrably
life-saving treatment
for the disease i mean all
of the problem-crunching fury with which
hmrc and the treasury created
the furlough scheme and all the other
means of support
world leading standards of protection
for jobs
and incomes set up in a matter of days
there were brilliant and determined
individuals who more
than rose to the challenge of this
crisis there were thousands and
thousands
who put their hearts and souls into it
and yet our debt is not just to them
it's not just even to the
devotion and the love of the nhs
and the care workers who saved so many
lives
including my own there was one big
reason
in the end that we were able to avert a
far
worse disaster and that was because
the whole of society came together
to make a sacrifice on behalf of those
who might be particularly
vulnerable particularly the elderly
we all knew when we went into lockdown
that there would be huge economic costs
and we could see what would happen
and yet we did it the united kingdom
in a display of solidarity not seen
since the second world war and so today
we must combine that energy and drive
with that concentrated burst of
collective
willpower that protected the nhs and
control the virus
and saved literally hundreds of
thousands
of lives and we must work
fast because we've already seen
the vertiginous drop in gdp
and we know that people are worried now
about their jobs
and their businesses and we're waiting
as if between the flash of lightning and
the thunderclap
with our hearts in our mouths for the
full economic
reverberations to appear
and so we must use this moment now this
interval
to plan our response and to fix of
course
the problems that were most brutally
illuminated
in that covid lightning flash the
problems in our social care system
the parts of government that seem to
respond so sluggishly so that
sometimes it seemed like that recurring
bad dream
when you're telling your feet to run and
your feet
won't move and yet we must also
go further and realize that if we are to
recover
fully if we're to deal with the coming
economic aftershock
then this covid crisis is also
the moment to address the problems
in our country that we have failed to
tackle for decades
because it's one of the most
extraordinary features of the uk
in so many ways the greatest place on
earth
that we tolerate such yawning gaps
between the best
and the rest we have some of the best
and most productive companies
in the world and yet we are not as
nationally productive
as many of our global competitors we
have the world's most brilliant medical
minds the world's best
pharmaceutical companies our doctors our
treatments are the best in the world
and yet we have so many millions who
have to wait for too long
to see their gp even before the new
waiting lists
produced by the crisis we have umpteen
fantastic globally
outstanding universities and yet too
many degree courses are not now
delivering value
and for a century we've failed to invest
enough in further education
and give young people the practical
training and further education
they need we have a a capital city
london was is will be in so many ways
the capital
of the world great respect to andy
theater finance tech restaurants
you name it london leads the world and
yet too many parts
of our amazing country have felt left
behind
neglected unloved as though someone had
taken a strategic decision
that their fate did not matter as much
as the metropolis
so i want you to know that this
government not only has a vision
to change this country for the better we
have a mission
to unite and to level up and it's the
mission on which we were elected
last year and we have a plan
and in advancing that plan now
i just serve notice that we will not be
responding to this
crisis with what people call austerity
we're not going to cheese power our way
out of trouble because the world has
moved on
since 2008 and we not only face
a new and in some ways a far bigger
challenge
and i can tell everybody
businesses that next week the chancellor
richie sunak will be setting out our
immediate plan
to support the economy through the the
first phase of the recovery
but this moment also gives us a much
greater chance
to be radical and to do things
differently
to build back better and to build back
boulder
and so we will be doubling down on our
strategy we will double down
on leveling up if you can make sense of
that and when i say level up
i don't mean i don't mean attacking
are great companies or i don't mean
impeding
the success of of london far from it or
launching some
punitive raid on the wealth creators
i don't believe in tearing people down
any more than i believe in tearing down
statues
that are part of our heritage let alone
a statue of our greatest wartime
leader i believe in building
people up giving everyone growing up in
this country
the opportunity they need whoever you
are
whatever your ethnicity whatever your
background
and there are certain things that are
indispensable for that opportunity
hospital you're born in schools you go
to
the safety of the streets where you grow
up
and this government has not forgotten
that we were elected
to build 40 new hospitals
and we will matt hancock is setting out
the list
in the next few days and that is just
the
beginning we will continue and step up
the biggest ever program of funding the
nhs
and we won't wait to fix the problems of
social care
that every government has flunked for
the last
30 years we will end the injustice that
some people have to sell their homes to
finance the cost of their care while
others don't
and we're finalizing our plans and we
will build
a cross-party consensus we want to look
after
those who have looked after us
and at the same time we will build the
foundations
now for future prosperity to make this
country
a britain that is fully independent and
self-governing
for the first time in 45 years the most
attractive place
to live to invest to set up a company
with the most
motivated and highly skilled workforce
and so we're investing massively now in
education
with over 14 billion pounds for primary
and secondary education between now
and 2023 and today with a new 10-year
school building program begin beginning
now with one billion pounds for the
first
50 schools and a vast 1.5 billion pound
program
for refurbishing our dilapidated
fe sector dilapidated in many places not
here of course
because it's time it's time that the
system recognized
that talent and genius
are expressed as much by hand and by eye
as they are by a spreadsheet or an essay
so when i say unite and level up when i
say
build up people and build up talent i
want to end the current injustice it
means a pupil from a
london state school is now 50 more
likely to go to a top university
than a pupil from the west midlands and
that is not only
unjust it is such a waste of human
talent we will unleash the potential
of the entire country and that means
basic things cracking down again
on the crime that blights too many of
our streets and too many lives and we'll
get on with our plan
to recruit twenty thousand more police
officers we've already found
three thousand or recruited three
thousand and i thank
the police again for everything they're
doing
and have done in this crisis and we will
back
our police all the way
and give our justice system the powers
we need to end the lunacy
that stops us for instance deporting
some violent
offenders just as we've already stopped
the automatic early release of
terrorists
will make this country safer we will
build the hospitals
build the schools the colleges but we
will also build back
greener and build a more beautiful
britain
we will protect our landscape with flood
defenses and plants
plant 30 000 hectares of trees every
year creating a new patchwork
of woodlands to enchant and re-energize
the soul and in those towns
that feel left behind we have plans to
invest
in their centers new academy schools
new green buses new broadband
and we want to make them places where
people have
the confidence to stay to raise their
families
to start businesses and not to feel that
all the action
is in the cities or in the metropolis
and yet i don't think that this crisis
has ended the desire or the need
to move around swiftly and efficiently
we've all many of us been learning the
wonders of zoom
and ms teams and the pleasure of muting
and unmuting our colleagues at key
moments
but we still need to travel
and more than ever the time has come
when we must unite
and level up in the most basic way
possible not just with
hs2 and northern powerhouse rail
but with better roads better rail all
round unlocking
the central manchester bottleneck that
delays services
across the north 4 000 brand new
zero carbon buses a massive
new plan for cycleways across the
country
and we will build and rebuild those
vital connections to every part
of the uk because now is the moment
to strengthen that incredible
partnership
between england scotland wales and
northern ireland
and i know that uh sometimes
people have paid up the legitimate
variations
in response between the devolved
administrations
but when you look at the whole effort
you can see the absolutely vital
role of that union and that partnership
it is our fantastic uk armed services
that have played such a crucial role in
this crisis running
the test centers building the hospitals
transporting people from
the shetlands to the right covid wards
it was the might
of the united kingdom treasury that set
up that
furlough scheme in all corners of the
country
sent massive and immediate extra funding
to all four parts of the uk so i think
the union has more than showed its worth
and a prosperous and united kingdom must
also be a connected kingdom
and that's why we're now accelerating
projects from the southwest to the
northeast
from wales to scotland to northern
ireland and
to drive economic growth in all parts of
the country
i can say that we will carry out a study
of all future road rail air and
cross sea links between all our four
parts
of the uk when
did a government first promise to duel
the a1
to scotland i tell you it was 1992. this
government
is going to get on and do it
and it is this infrastructure revolution
that will allow us also to end that
other chronic
failure of the british state
decade after decade in which we have
failed to build
enough homes we will build fantastic
new homes on brownfield sites and other
areas
that with better transport and other
infrastructure
could frankly be suitable and right for
development
and we will address that
intergenerational injustice
and help young people get on the housing
ladder in the way that their parents
and grandparents could and it's to
galvanize
this whole process that this government
will shortly bring forward the most
radical pro reforms the most radical
reforms
of our planning system since the end of
the second world war
yes we will insist on beautiful
low-carbon homes like this one
but kovid has taught us the cost
of delay why do larger procurement
projects take
80 percent longer in the uk
than in germany why
are uk capital costs typically between
10 and 30
higher than other european projects
why is hs2 transformational
though it will be going to cost us the
equivalent
of the gdp of sri lanka
why are we so slow at building homes by
comparison with other
european countries in 2018 we built 2.25
homes per 1000 people germany managed
3.6 netherlands
3.8 france 6.8
i'll tell you why because time
is money and the newt counting delays
in our system are a massive drag
on the pro productivity and the
prosperity
of this country so we will
build better and build greener
but we will also build faster and that's
why the chancellor
and i have set up project project speed
to scythe through red tape and
get things done and with every home we
make
every mile of full fiber broadband that
we lay every flood defending culvert
that we dig with every railway station
hospital or school that we build
we will of course be tackling the next
wave
of this crisis by helping to create
thousands
of high-paid high-skilled jobs because
we know in our hearts that the
furloughing
cannot go on forever and as the economy
recovers we also
know that jobs that many people had in
january
are also not coming back or at least not
in that
form and we know that that's the biggest
and most immediate economic challenge
that we face and so
we will also offer an opportunity
guarantee
so that every young person has the
chance
of an apprenticeship or an in-work
placement so that they
maintain the skills and confidence
they need to find the job that is right
for them i'm conscious
as i say all this that it sounds like a
prodigious amount of government
intervention
it sounds like a new deal and all i can
say is
if that is so then that is how it's
meant to sound and how it's meant
to be because that is what the times
demand a government that is powerful and
determined and that puts its arms around
people at a time
of crisis that tackles
homelessness the inequalities that drive
people to food banks
because it's time now not just for a new
deal but for a fair deal
for the british people and we can do all
this
now partly because of the prudent
management of the economy
in the last 10 years but also because
we're planning to invest
now when the cost of borrowing allows it
and when the returns
are greatest because that is the way
both
now and in the medium term
to drive the growth to fuel the animal
spirits
and the long-term business investment
on which our future prosperity
depends my friends i am not
a communist i believe it is also
the job of government to create the
conditions
for free market enterprise
and yes we course
we clap for nhs
but under this government we also
applaud those who make our nhs possible
our innovators our wealth creators
our capitalists our financiers
because in the end in the end it's
their willingness to take risks with
their own money
that will be crucial for our future
success this is dudley
the birthplace of abraham derby
who massively accelerated the industrial
revolution
by using coke instead of charcoal
to produce pig iron it may not like
sound like it but actually coke was the
green option
still is probably compared to charcoal
and today
dudley remains at the cutting edge
of green technology that is increasingly
driving
the whole of the uk economy
it was here in dudley in 2011 that a
company called westfield produced the
world's first commercially viable
electric racing car and the whole of the
west midlands
is now a global center of battery
technology
and you're going further in i've seen
you with the institute of technology
that you're setting up just just down
the road batteries
for evs and that's the vision of mayor
andy
street and we will back that vision this
government will back that vision this is
a government that backs britain
and believes in british innovation
and this summer we will be creating a
new
science funding agency to back high-risk
high-reward projects because in the next
100 years the most successful societies
will be the most innovative societies
and we in this country have the knack
for innovation
we lead the world in quantum computing
in life sciences in genomics in
artificial intelligence space satellites
net zero planes and the long-term
solutions
to global warming wind
solar hydrogen technology carbon capture
and storage nuclear
and as part of our mission to reach net
zero co2 emissions by 2050
we should set ourselves the goal
now of producing the world's first
zero emission long haul passenger
plane jet zero
let's do it and they were no longer
a military superpower we can be a
science
superpower but we must end the chasm
between invention and application that
means a brilliant british
discovery disappears to california and
becomes
a billion dollar american company or a
chinese
company and we need now
a dynamic commercial spirit to make the
most
of uk breakthroughs so that british
ideas
produce new british industries
and british jobs and yet of course
to achieve all that from where we are
now
we must first get on with the hard and
painstaking work of reopening our
economy and i feel the urgency and
impatience of all those sectors that are
still being held back
the theaters the arts the salons the
gyms cricket clubs
sectors in which we lead the world and
yet which suffer
because they depend on the very physical
proximity and contact that kovid makes
so difficult and i say to all of you or
everybody in those sectors
we will get you going as fast as we
possibly can
we want to get back to life as normal
for as many as possible as fast as
possible but
as we approach july the 4th
i must say that the dangers as we can
see
in leicester the dangers have not
gone away the virus is
out there still circling like a shark in
the water
and it will take all our collective
discipline and resolve
to keep that virus at bay and if we can
and get on to the next
phase of the recovery then
we can get on all the faster to deliver
our plan because
this government is not just committed to
defeating coronavirus
this government is determined to use
this crisis
finally to tackle this country's great
unresolved
challenges of the last three decades
to build the homes to fix the nhs
to solve social care to tackle
the skills crisis to mend
the indefensible gap in opportunity and
productivity
and connectivity between the regions
of the uk to unite and level up
and to that end we will build build
build build back better
build that greener build back faster
and to do that at the pace that this
moment requires
we need now to distill the very best of
the
psychic energy of the last few months
let's take the zap and elon
of the armed services who built the
nightingales
let's take the selflessness and the love
of the health and the care workers and
the charities
the public spirit and the good humor
of the entire population and let's
brew them together with the superhuman
energy
of captain tom bounding
around his garden at the age of 100
and raising millions for charity let's
take that
combination that spirit
bottle it swing it
and i believe we will have found if not
quite a magic potion
at least the right formula to get us
through
these dark times and i must stress
that there will still be some tough
times
ahead and to work this whole plan
through
will take effort and nerve
and patience
and no we won't get everything right we
certainly won't get everything right
first time but this is the moment
to be ambitious and to believe
in britain to rise to the scale of the
challenge
and the opportunity if we deliver this
plan
together then we will together
build our way back to health and we will
not just
bounce back we will bounce forward
stronger
better and more united than ever before
thank you all very much
thank you so much
[Applause]
thank you very much i think we're going
to go now to some questions from our
friends in the
in the media and we're going to go first
to laura kunsberg of
the bbc
um thank you very much prime minister um
good morning um you've set out a very
long list of
promises and ambitions but the economy
is falling
off a cliff and what the government's
promised today amounts to less than 100
pounds
per person in order to try to fix the
very many things that you have talked
about
how does that remotely match your
rhetoric and can i ask also for the
people of leicester can you give them
any indication of how long the lockdown
that's been brought back there
might last and will you commit to
updating them as often as you can
yes thanks very much laura well first of
all you're absolutely right to say that
the
the the initial package that we're
talking about is five billion pounds but
you know
uh that's not an insignificant sum but
that's part of a
massive program overall 34 billion
pounds on the
uh the nhs 14 billion pounds on
education 100 billion pounds
on uh on infrastructure you know these
sums
uh now there's a reason we can do this
now as i say we've we've managed the
economy
prudently it's the it's the right time
to uh
to borrow but what we're saying is that
this is the moment
to make that big big long-term stake
that uh that backing of britain because
that will deliver the long-term
productivity gains the gains that will
in the end
deliver the tax revenues that of course
we're going to need
down the line we can balance this over
the cycle but we
must must must make the investment now
that is the right way forward and on
on leicester let me let me just say that
uh obviously we will be uh in constant
uh communication with the authorities in
leicester but also monitoring it
nationally and ensuring that you know as
and
when it the data changes and the
situation
uh improves then uh we will we will take
steps to
uh to ease the measures that we've had
to enforce but
i think most people across the country
do understand and
and and do remember that as we come out
of this i always said there were going
to be
local flare-ups and that we would deal
with them
uh locally and that's what we're doing
in leicester and uh we'll do it
elsewhere
it worked in uh in places like
uh ashford or or western super mario
in leicester it's gone out more into the
into the community and we need to take
the steps that we have
can i just pick you up though in the
economy what you're announcing is
largely an acceleration of what was
already in your manifesto
so you're trying to say to people today
that covet has changed what you
want to do and change your level of your
ambition but it looks like basically a
speeded-up version of what you promised
back in the autumn well hang on let me
just focus on that word speed it up
uh laura because that's the thing and
that's right but and it's not just
speeded up it's also intensified and
increased because
as i said to everybody early on we all
know what costs money in this country
it's the delay it's it's the bureaucracy
it's the the planning delays that are
adding so massively
to the costs for young people
particularly for for housing
you know it is much more difficult for
people in this country
to get the homes they need than it
should be and more difficult for them
than it is for people
in other comparable european countries
and that's because
of the delay we're talking about that's
why we're setting up
project speed this is not just about
investment the government leading the
way it's also about
the government trying to clear the way
and to
get things done faster
thank you very much laura
robert peston itv
[Music]
hello prime minister um to quote the
bank of
england excuse me
um to quote the bank of england
more than half the workforce
are currently unemployed or
underemployed this is a
an economic crisis unprecedented
um what confidence do you
have that as the job support schemes run
down and end you will be able to keep
unemployment below
the three million level that blighted
the lives of
so many in the 1980s
and again briefly on leicester
you promised a world-class test trace
and isolate
scheme in your words you would be
whacking a mole
uh to keep the virus under control
but you're shutting down in effect a
city of 500 000 people
we're some way aren't we from a
world-class system
okay uh first of all robert on
on leicester i always made it very clear
that we would take
you know steps draconian steps if
necessary to put on the brakes
and to deal with problems as they as
they flared up we've got a problem in
the
uh in leicester and i again i thank the
people of leicester for their
forbearance and they're going to have to
wait a little bit longer they're going
to have to
go through some another period of
restrictions i think everybody can see
why that's
sensible and that's what we're going to
to do we've always said we were going to
operate on the on that basis and our
testing system actually
is uh we're testing now uh almost
double per head what most other european
countries are doing we've got a testing
capacity
of of 280 000 a day and
uh testing is uh a huge part of that
uh whack-a-mole strategy and will
continue to be
to be intensified on
unemployment and and the the future for
uh for jobs now in this country
of course we face uh you're right we
face a
a real real crisis and we have to
deal with it but we're going to deal
with it in the most energetic possible
way
and the analogy i'd like you to to hold
in your minds is
a comparison with the energy with which
we put together the furlough scheme we
are going to work as hard as we possibly
can
to make sure that people have an
opportunity guarantee that they are
they have the chance of an in-work
placement that they have the chance of
an apprenticeship but robert you know
i'm not going to pretend that this is
going to be without
real real difficulty and real real bumps
i'm not going to put a a number on it
because i can't at this stage what we
can do
is put in the investment now
get the plans going get the project
underway
get the diggers in get the hospitals
start the hospitals
building build now that believe me
is the is the way forward i remember the
crisis of 2008
which was actually not as bad as the
current
the current crisis but if you remember
people were very apprehensive about
unemployment and we did have a spike in
unemployment but we tackled it then i
remember what we did
we had huge infrastructure projects so
we simply kept going
and and ran faster crossrail of the
olympic park
big construction projects around london
which i was then running
that is one of the solutions but there
are as you'll see from this
plan that we've announced today short
term medium term long term
there are many other aspects to it and i
believe that's the best way forward for
this country
building building building our way back
to health
and keeping the momentum of employment
in people's lives
as far as we possibly can on that though
i mean
um the kind of investment you've
announced or is even when it's speeded
up
it takes a long time to have an impact
on
prosperity the people who are losing
jobs are typically people
with lower skills in retail in
hospitality
and it looks as though those sectors are
going to be shrinking for some time to
come
how can you give those people
the skills rapidly to find work
well robert the best thing to do
is not just to give them the opportunity
guarantee that we've
talked about just now but also of course
not to despair
of the possibility of the return of
their existing businesses to uh to life
in as
as as fast away as as possible and
that's why it is also vital that we not
only get this
economic recovery program going but that
we simultaneously continue
to bear down on the the disease and you
know if you if
you want what's my what's my plan what's
my vision for how we're going to cope
with
with kobe i don't want a world in uh the
next year where we're endlessly forced
to
uh stay uh meters apart from
each other that's not going to work in
the long term for the uk economy for a
great dynamic service economy
such as the one that we have it wouldn't
even work for a manufacturing
economy such as the one that we have so
we've got to
get that disease down and return to life
as
uh as as fast as a normal life as fast
as we possibly can um
yes i fully accept that there are going
to be
uh economic aftershocks but there are
also big
opportunities now to take this country
forward
to make investments to make big changes
in the way
that i've described thank you robert
um beth ruby sky news
thank you um promise you talked about
people having their hearts in their
mouths as we wait for the economic
reverberations
of kovid and millions of people we watch
in this speech and they've got their
hearts
in their mouths about their jobs nine
million people have been furloughed
three million in the hospitality sector
nine million
is over a quarter of the current
workforce you're talking
about build build build what about jobs
jobs jobs and jobs
now and i've got two questions on that
one is
will you extend the furlough scheme
beyond
september for certain sectors
and just to go back to the new dylan
roosevelt his works program created
four million jobs in the us you said you
can't put a number
on what level of redundancies we might
see can you actually give us a number
about what your plan means in terms of
actual jobs being created
no because we don't we don't yet know uh
what the full
economic impact is is going to be uh but
certainly the
uh the furlough scheme runs on
uh to october and
we will we will do everything we can
to get this economy moving and i think
what we've set out
is the most radical boldest uh and most
ambitious
vision for investment in the
infrastructure and the public services
of this
country that i've i can think of in my
political lifetime
but it's also the building of the
the platform this is the crucial thing
it's the building of the
platform the the bedrock for the private
sector
with all its ingenuity to
invest and to come up with new jobs and
new businesses and so this is a program
for jobs
jobs jobs because it's by building
building building building
our infrastructure building our schools
building our hospitals
building back better bolder and greener
that we will get
the jobs that this nation needs and
that's that's our strategy
but if you can't reopen the economy and
leicester is
a worrying sign will you protect
people's jobs are you saying to those
people
followed are you saying to those three
million people
working in hospitality i'm sorry but you
might just lose your jobs
i i just re return you to what i said to
to robert our ambition
is to try to get back as fast as we
possibly can
to a world in which the uk's dynamic
unbelievably
creative and attractive service economy
is able to operate again in a way that
creates
jobs and that's what we hope to do
but in the meantime
here's a massive program to start us up
and and get us moving and i think it
will make a
a huge difference but we will keep it
under constant review
and if we have to go further believe me
we certainly will
and just one quick follow-up um you
talked about the opportunity guarantee
in your manifesto
you had a tax guarantee you had a tax
guarantee that said to voters
no tax increases of the national
insurance income tax
vat but roosevelt himself had to tax the
wealthy
for everyone to do their bit to rebuild
the u.s economy are you saying to people
today
that part of your real build will
involve tax risers for those that can
afford it the manifesto promises
are redundant now aren't they i think
you i think you should really wait
to see what the chancellor has to say uh
in the course of the next few
few weeks and months but i remain
absolutely determined to ensure that the
tax burden in so far as
we possibly can is reasonable and
that we continue to be a dynamic
competitive
open market economy and i think that's
what people want to see but
on fiscal matters uh you're not going to
uh to tempt me
uh beth now to make any further uh
comment you'll have to wait for
rishi uh to speak later on thank you so
much thank you
uh pippa
hello prime minister um pippakira from
the daily mirror
i'm following on from robert and beth's
questions many workers
and businesses are already struggling
really quite badly after three months
of lockdown can you promise extra
support
for those who may have to withstand a
second period of lockdown
for example in places like leicester and
you've repeatedly throughout this crisis
praised the public sector
so can you rule out a pay freeze for
them
and perhaps even go further and set out
any signs of a new pace settlement
oh well thanks pippa um
look i think this country can be
immensely proud of the way we've
stepped up and and put our arms around
the workforce 11 million people
have received support uh employed or or
or self-employed number huffman i think
22 billion pounds
on the furlough scheme alone uh 26
billion in
in bounce-back loans uh huge sums in
in grants uh have gone out of the
treasury at incredible
speed and uh of course
we will keep uh you know we'll keep
under constant review what's happening
in
places like leicester to ensure that
people uh don't get penalized for
for doing the right thing um and i can't
remember your final point
sorry thank you uh well
of course we'll be looking at the
independent public said to pay review uh
body and seeing what they
uh what they say but i'm very i'm very
proud for instance
that under this government uh we've had
a 12 and a half percent increase in
in pay for uh for nurses alone since
since 2018
uh we and we believe in that we believe
in that investment this government's
making the biggest ever investment
uh in the nhs uh uh
starting salary for teachers uh we're
we're putting at 30 000 pounds
this is a very very ambitious government
that believes in investing in public
services
i just also asked very quickly on behalf
of some colleagues that weren't able to
be here
and china's passed a draconian security
law giving powers over hong kong
which obviously deepens fears over the
city's freedoms your foreign secretary
said that it cannot be business as usual
anyway with china after the coveted
crisis have you made your mind up or
will this impact on your decision about
whether to allow hawaii
to be allowed to be used in britain's 5g
network thanks pippa well as as dom rob
has already said
we are obviously deeply concerned about
the decision to pass the
uh the national security law in in
beijing as it affects
hong kong we will be looking at
the law very carefully we will want to
scrutinize it properly
to understand whether it's in conflict
with the
uh the joint declaration between the uk
and
and china and you know we'll be setting
out our response in
in due course you'll have heard what
i've already said pippa about our duty
to
to the bnos in uh in hong kong
um and on but on on
huawei and and other matters the
position
is very very simple look uh i i'm not
going to get it drawn into
cynophobia because i'm not a sinophobe
but on the other hand i do
want to see our critical national
infrastructure properly uh protected
from
vendors for hostile state vendors so we
need to
we need to strike that balance and
that's what we'll do thank you very much
thank you can we go to
jason grove's daily mail
thanks prime minister um it sounds like
quite a lot of gloopy public spending
when are we gonna you know gloopy when
are we gonna hear about the kind of
tax cuts and incentives for
entrepreneurs we've expected from
tory administrations in the past are you
more sort of gordon
brown than uh margaret thatcher now and
it can ask on planning it sounds like
the newts are going to get it
is it the end of the road for nimbys as
well are you willing to stand up
to those people in middling who say not
in back
my backyard and say yes it's gonna have
to be in your backyard well i
first of all on i i don't think that you
you wait and see what rishi has to say
and uh you had uh the daily mirror
calling for tax rises
uh daily mail according for tax cuts uh
you know i think that uh we understand
the debate
uh we wait you know where my instincts
are and what i would like to do
they're there of course to cut taxes
wherever you possibly can but the
difficulty we have
is that we have a a a generational
challenge now
and we have to take our country forward
i think that the package we've set out
is the is the right one uh it's a
massive program of investment
of backing and believing in in britain
but i also
understand that on top of that bedrock
of infrastructure
you need dynamic private sector
concerns and you need to make sure that
the fiscal environment as we leave the
eu the fiscal environment has got to be
as competitive as it
can possibly be because i want people to
be starting up companies i want people
to be
developing their companies and i want
people as i said in the in the speech i
want
brilliant british ideas being
translated into brilliant british
companies
billion pound british companies and not
just disappearing to
america or china wherever else and that
requires
a uh a competitive approach
to taxation but you're gonna have to
wait as i said to to pippa
you're gonna have to wait for rishi uh
for the for the for the tax package
and uh uh the nimbys look i
i believe and if you that this country
has got the space has got the
opportunity
on brownfield sites and elsewhere
actually on
uh on land that could be developed if
you had the right infrastructure it's
got the space to do things better
and to do things bolder and to do things
faster and that's what we're going to do
and yes i can imagine that there may be
some people
uh who will uh who will want to object
to this or that but there always are
in life if it had been for the treasury
we wouldn't have built the m25
uh for instance you know you've got
sometimes you've got to get on with
things
um they would have done crossrail you
know
this country took 35 years
to get cross rail done we need
pace and this is the moment to
inject that pace into
the ambitions of of the government
my old colleague peter from the express
star
thanks prime minister um politicians and
business leaders in the west midlands
have
said this region needs more than three
billion pounds over the next three years
to help
get through the aftermath of the
pandemic um firstly does the government
have a spare three billion quid
lying around to give to the west
midlands to help it through this period
and secondly you've spoken again today
reiterating your pledge to level up the
country
this is something you mentioned a lot
since you've become prime minister
um is it not true to say i mean i
understand you're a glass-half-full kind
of guy but is it not true to say that
what's happened with the pandemic is
going to push back those plans to level
up the country
well peter look um first of all on the
three billion i i i think you've added
all everything together that we're doing
the west midlands will will get a huge a
huge
investment i wouldn't like to uh
identify the exact figure now but i i
would be amazed if it wasn't well north
of three
or three billion but what we what we
want to do
is is this the
the difference between um this idea and
and and sort of and and goss plan
this is about creating the
conditions for long-term
increases in productivity and prosperity
you know
as i said in the speech our companies
are not as productive as
they could be some of them we take too
long
to get things done it costs too much it
costs the taxpayer
too much to get things done so
i do think that this is the moment to do
it i i agree with you that the
you say i'm a glass half full uh kind of
kind of ma'am well yes i am i mean i
believe profoundly that we will
get through this and we'll get through
this very well
i'm not going to understate the the
challenge
but i also think the opportunity is
massive it's
absolutely massive right now we can make
changes do things differently
do things better we're offered a chance
now to do things that
previous generations haven't had and we
should take it
thanks very much thank you i think i'm
done here
is that right thank you all very much
well done thank you
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news